---
layout: post
title: Week 11
---

## Objectives

This week my objectives are less learning-focused and more task-focused. The items on the agenda for this week are completing a rough draft of my final report and creating a conference-esque presentation on my final report. George and I talked about potentially turning my final report into a manuscript and ways to archive my work in the case that I don't. I still haven't decided one way or the other whether I'd like to turn my report into a manuscript or not. I think it may depend on the time I have available this next year as I complete the Masters program in CS here at UIUC. However, I'd like to archive my data and code at the very least. The easiest option is to host it here, but there are options to consider. George suggested looking into [PubPub](https://www.pubpub.org/) if I choose not to publish my work in a journal. 

[My presentation can be found here](files/finalreportpres.pdf)

## Other

I think this is the part of the semester that I'm most comfortable with -- the writing part. My final report is a lot of work to write, certainly, but I'm comfortable with writing. I suspect this will be a strength of mine to lean on as I become more involved with the world of CS. The hard part of research was finding a topic I thought was interesting enough to write about. Now that I've found one, the process is fairly straightforward. 

If I'm going to turn this project into a manuscript, I'm more concerned about having the quantitative skills necessary to produce a competitive manuscript in a STEM field. I imagine those skills will have to come with time and effort as my background in statistics is weak, but I'm interested in strengthening it. I feel like I'm playing catch-up in many ways -- not so much when it comes to the research process itself, but more so with the sharp transition from the social sciences to computer science. There's a lot of skills that I'm either missing or are simply underdeveloped as they weren't critical to completing my undergraduate degree. But there's also a lot of skills that I do have as a result of being an non-traditional CS student. 
