---
layout: post
title: Week 6
---

## Learning Objectives
<ul>
  <li>Develop plan for project</li>
  <li>Clustering with Leiden, creating legible graphs</li>
  <li></li>
</ul>

## Journal Articles
<ul>
  <li>Bu, Y., Waltman, L., & Huang, Y. (2021). A multidimensional framework for characterizing the citation impact of scientific publications. <i>Quantitative Science Studies</i>, 2(1), 155–183. https://doi.org/10.1162/qss_a_00109</li>
  <ul>
    <li> Bu et al. proposes four new measures for citation research: breadth, depth, dependence, and indepence. These metrics are not an evaluation of the quality of the work, simply a way of measuring impact outside of citation count. Citation count alone provides a very limited view of the impact of a paper, which is why these metrics are introduced. </li>

  <li>Breadth and depth measure whether papers that cite paper A also cite each other. If they do, these papers are aware of each other and likely in the same research community, so paper A is said to have depth due to its deep impact on one community. If citing papers don't cite each other, paper A has breadth, as it has been cited by a range of research communities. </li>

<li>Dependence and independence are measures of how many references are shared between paper A and its citing papers. If there is significant overlap, paper A is dependent as citing paper A's references is essential to contextualizing paper A. If there is little or no overlap, paper A is independent from the previous literature.</li>

<li>The authors apply their metrics to i) all WoS articles published between 1980 and 2017 and then ii) articles within this search determined to be related to scientometrics through algorithmic clustering. This approach seems unfocused as the authors are discussing new metrics -- how do they know their results are reasonable? They discuss four papers in the scientometrics literature, but why these papers? Would the results look different if the topic were more restricted? </li>
  </ul>
  </br></br>
  <li>Hug, S.E (2022). Towards Theorizing Peer Review. <i>Quantitative Science Studies</i>, 3(3), 1-17. https://doi.org/10.1162/qss_a_00195</li>

## Things I Made

## Other
